I could say that my past
was really an unhappy past.
I went through very difficult times
during my childhood.
I lost hope
that I could ever have
a better life.
Because of that,
I started to associate with
the wrong people in my life.
One night, I was arrested
and sent to Buluo Prison.
It is a high-security prison
in Congo.
Prison is a very dangerous place.
But I was surprised how they
accepted the truth so easily.
Really, I was amazed.
We needed to obtain permission
to be able to continue
to preach in the prison.
We had so enjoyed
the preaching work there.
I went to see the authorities in the city
to find out what was required
so that we could have permission
to preach in the prison.
To my great amazement,
they simply handed me a paper
and told me to put
my request in writing.
They asked me to wait.
Within minutes,
I had the authorization
in my hands without
paying anything at all.
Every time the situation
seemed insurmountable to us,
impossible to us,
we saw the hand of Jehovah
providing us
with the suitable solution.
The authorization gave a great boost
to this special witnessing initiative.
In harmony with 1 Corinthians 9:22, 23,
the brothers could then
‘become all things to people of all sorts,
so that they might
by all possible means save some.’
Some religious leaders
who were also prisoners
were extremely opposed
to our presence.
They conspired and had us
thrown out of our meeting place.
The prisoners themselves
were concerned about this.
They found another meeting place
even more spacious than the former.
Since Buluo is eight kilometers
away from our congregation,
to transport the group who support
the preaching work and meetings,
the body of elders organized two minibuses
to go out every Saturday to Buluo.
Once they arrive,
they begin the preaching work at 8:30,
and at 10 o’clock
the meetings start.
All the meetings of the week
are held on the Saturday.
Concerning Jehovah’s Witnesses,
personally, I am very impressed.
It’s more than three years they’ve been
more active in helping the detainees.
The reeducation of the prisoners
is assured by Jehovah’s Witnesses.
This is a good collaboration
on the part of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
With this I’m very happy.
One hundred
and seventy-five attended
the circuit assembly
in December 2014,
which was held in the prison,
and seven were baptized.
Local media covered the event.
This is the first time I have seen
Jehovah’s Witnesses
baptized here
in the Buluo Prison.
This is a good thing.
I encourage you
to continue with this assistance.
Every week there are
more than 80 in attendance
and sometimes
more than that, even 140.
In the attendance
there are the 36 publishers
—the brothers who learned
the truth in Buluo Prison—
30 are baptized
and 6 unbaptized.
I visited many churches
because I had a lot of questions,
but I never got
any exact answers.
When I went to see
Jehovah’s Witnesses,
they gave me accurate answers
from the Bible.
To know that
Jehovah is compassionate
and ready to forgive,
these are the qualities
that touched me.
I used to be a soldier.
I was in the military.
I attended various churches
because I had a question
that bothered me a lot.
I wondered why God allows
bad things to happen
to people all the time.
While I was in prison,
Jehovah’s Witnesses came to visit
and talk to us.
I asked them
the same question,
“Why does God allow sickness
and suffering to continue?”
They replied by using
three Bible verses.
I was very happy because I received
the answer to my question.
Papy Okito is a brother
who learned
the truth in prison.
He made
such remarkable progress
that those in charge
now have confidence in him.
Like Joseph in the Bible,
he has been placed in a position
of supervision over the other prisoners.
He also made further progress,
and thus, the management has requested
that his prison sentence
be reduced.
When I arrived in the prison,
I had lost hope.
I thought for me
it was the end.
By means of the Bible,
I have found joy
and hope in my life.
That is why today I am happy
even though I am still here.
But I know that
the Paradise is for me.
It’s been five years
since the brothers
started preaching
in the Buluo Prison.
At times, the publishers place
up to 500 magazines in one weekend.
Although our success is not
measured by the number of placements,
this response does paint
a clear picture
of the spiritual thirst
among these prisoners.
In the last few months,
inside these prison walls,
11 more unbaptized publishers
have been approved.
What a loving act by Jehovah
and his organization
to help such individuals satisfy
their spiritual needs!